## A - Questions
1. Describe the most relevant learnings from programming-related subjects during your career. 
2. Describe a situation you had to resolve with a teammate from a study or work group. 
3. Describe your personal learning plans or development expectations in technical areas in the short and long term. 
## A - Answers
1. My most relevant learnings from programming-related subjects are the following:
    * **Networking**: I’ve gained a solid understanding of IPv4 and IPv6, including their structure, management, and common use cases. I’ve also worked with networking devices such as switches and routers, both physically and through virtual machines and simulators. In addition, I’m familiar with the TCP/IP protocol stack and have used Wireshark for packet analysis.
    * **Programming Paradigms**: I’ve studied several programming paradigms throughout my career, with a stronger focus on OOP due to its alignment in how people (and engineers) perceive the world to solve problems. I’ve applied OOP in multiple languages, including Java, C++ and Python, using class diagrams with UML language.
    * **Automation and Containerization**: I have experience in building and using Docker images and containers, both locally and in cloud environments. I’ve also worked with CI/CD pipelines (GitLab CI mainly) following DevOps practices. For automation, I’ve used Bash and Python scripting, and for security several security scanning tools such as Trivy, Checkov, and detect-secrets.
    * **IoT**: I worked with an ESP32 microcontroller, connecting it to WiFi to interact with a Telegram bot. The project included telemetry (temperature and humidity), metrics visualization on an OLED display and integration with a cloud platform (ThingSpeak). I also implemented a Pub&Sub communication model using the Mosquitto MQTT broker.
    * **Databases**: I’ve learned how to work with databases, including configuration, designing (ERD) and manipulation using DBMS such as SQL Server and MySQL, integrating them into different projects.

2. In a two parts project I worked with two other classmates in a subject called "DevOps", we simulated a professional development environment based on microservices. We made a To-Do web app with a gmail remainder feature. In the first part of the project (before we introduced CI/CD), my teammates mainly focused on feature development and bug fixing, while I took the responsibility for the infrastructure and security, creating and maintaining Dockerfiles and docker-compose files, as well as vulnerability scanning using Trivy, Checkov and detect-secrets. An interesting dynamic emerged and persisted through the course of the subject: whenever they implemented a new feature, corrected a bug, or refactored some code, I would scan the resulting image and often find critical vulnerabilities, mostly when they introduced new dependencies. So I would adjust the image again in order to reduce the threat, leading sometimes in unexpected issues in the app. This required constant communication and collaboration (via Discord mainly) to adjust the implementation and minimize threats without blocking their progress. It was a great experience that throw some light to me in how Development and Infrastructure/Security work together in a real world environment.

3. In the short term, I plan to complete a professional internship before finishing my career so I can apply the theory I’ve learned into a real world environment. I’m particularly interested in areas such as Cybersecurity, AI, and DevOps. I’m eager to experience how a professional workplace operates and how multidisciplinary teams work together to deliver value and accomplish ambitious goals. I also want to make the most of the opportunity by learning from more experienced professionals (and mistakes along the way). This experience will help me strengthen my technical skills and improve how I structure, organize and develop personal projects, as well as how I work alongside my colleagues. The internship will help me clarify and consolidate the technical area I want to focus the most.
In the long term, I would like to establish myself in the cybersecurity field, with a particular focus on malware analysis, ethical hacking, and digital forensics. Although the future is uncertain, my commitment is to remain a continuous learner and adapt to disruptive innovations. Five years from now, I envision myself contributing to the security of complex systems and having projects of mine working in the real world, applying the analytical mindset I’m developing at university and through my personal projects.

